So we want to make sure that when the user clicks this locate me button, we automatically locate him,
so instead of throwing an unuseful alert, let's instead execute a method here which will do just that.
So I'm going to add this method here, I'll name it get location handler,
don't need an argument here
and in this method, we now can access navigator geolocation get current position, now that might look strange
because navigator if we were to use react for the web, would refer to the browser.
Now keep in mind that the javascript environment we're using here in a react native app is in the
end created by react native and the features we can use in there is also defined by the features
react native exposes us and they expose us access to this geolocation object and this method on this
navigator object in javascript,
that's just how that works.
Therefore we can conveniently fetch the location like this though we will not use any browser feature
here,
we will really just use the native device capabilities of getting a user position. So get current position
will be executed and it will then or it takes two arguments,
the first is a success function,
so our function which is executed when we successfully fetched the position and the second is an
arrow function which will be executed if the fetching of a position failed.
You can also add a third argument where you can define some options,
you can already see them here like the preview, like the timeout,
how long should it take to fetch the position before it fails
and so on.
So what I'll do here is I'll provide the first method where we get the position,
so if we did succeed and then we can do something with that,
I'll also add the second argument already, where we get an error and then we can do something with that
error,
first of all for example log it to the console so that we can see what went wrong. I will then also throw
an alert where I say fetching the position failed,
please pick one manually so that we give the user some feedback on how to solve this issue.
Inside position here,
I then want to use this position of course
and what we can do is we can just call our pick location handler, the one we used for manually clicking
on the map because there, we essentially get everything we need,
we navigate to this new position and we set the state.
The only thing we need to do to really be able to reuse this, we need to pass some things, some object where
we have the native event property which then holds a coordinate property.
So what I'll do inside here is just that,
I'll create my coords event, should be a javascript object which has a native event property
and this again is really just set up like this to be able to conveniently reuse pick location handler,
you could also just copy that code into get location handler and exchange the parts accordingly.
But here I'm trying to reuse the old code, so I'm creating this event object manually with native event
in there
so that here, this access doesn't fail
and then we need a coordinate object in there,
so this should be another javascript object where we have coordinate and coordinate that on the other
hand as you can see we access latitude and longitude, you should have latitude and longitude properties,
so I'll add a latitude here and I'll add a longitude here.
Now the values of these two arguments can be retrieved from the position object we're getting here,
so let's assign a latitude, there we can access position coords, there is a coords object in there and
there, the latitude and the same for the longitude pos coords longitude. With that we got our manual
or did this custom event created,
we can now pass this on and we can call this pick location handler executed mainly and pass on our coords
event so that the code we already wrote will also work when we manually fetch a location.
Now that's all nice but we need to do something super important before this will work. When trying to
fetch the user location,
we actually need to get the permission of the user to do that,
so we need to ask him for this permission.
Now the asking thing will be done automatically but for that, we need to set up our application to be
prepared to ask this,
so we need to go for Android into the Android folder and there under app source into the Android manifest
XML file
and there you get these users permissions elements.
Now there you simply have to add every new permission
your app will eventually use,
so I'll add users permission here,
then you add Android name, just like you see it for the other permissions there and then it's Android permission
and now the permission we need here to access the location is access, all uppercase, ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION,
with underscores between the names, ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION. Make sure that you also close this tag here like
this and with that, we added the request for Android,
now let's also do it for iOS. For iOS,
you need to go into the Xcode and then into the info plist file,
there you simply click on information property list, add a row and then you can type privacy and you
get a couple of options here,
there you should add the privacy location usage descriptor.
This is the text which will be displayed to the user when you try to get the location, here I'll add let's share
a place.
Now make sure to save this
and since you edited the configuration of both items, make sure to rerun npm run Android and thereafter,
also npm run ios.
So both were rebuilt,
we can now go back to the application, in case one of them hangs,
most of the time it's the Android one, that's just because we had this rebuild step, simply uninstall the app
in this case as always and then just rerun npm run Android and then you should have both up and
running after a little while.
Now before we can do anything let's go back to pick location though, let's make sure that we hook up
our get location handler.
So there in our jsx code where we have the button locate me, let's replace the dummy code we have
it in there instead
call this get location handler. With that, if you save that,
make sure to reload both apps and
now let's try it on iOS. I'll log in, share my place and I'll click locate me and then you see I'm asked if
I want to do this so I'm clicking allow here and it takes me to my position which and I will say that, on
the simulator is not my real location,
so don't be confused that this is still in San Francisco,
this is some dummy default location,
you saw that we navigated there though so that it animated there.
So picking that does really work,
it's just not using your real position because it's not that closely connected to your machine.
Let's also try that on iOS and there,
we will also get a dummy location, I can already tell you that.
So there, if you click on locate me, now we're taken to the Googleplex.
Now if you're getting an error here, maybe with the message that you timed out, go to the settings of
your emulator by clicking on these three dots and there on settings and make sure to not use detected
adb location, it might have been turned true on,
turn it off and use the dummy location you get here.
If you run this on a real device, you will of course get your location.
So with that, we got this set up and now we can fetch the location through the locate me button you on both
iOS and Android
and as you see, we nicely animate there.